# Internationalization

The toolbox package includes some helpers for locale dependent url generations.

## Locale dependent url generation

Consider a customer page that has two different pages; one in Norwegian and English. Both english and norwegian
has a News section that shows different news.

| Domain     | Route      | Name               |
|------------|------------|--------------------|
| test.no    | `/nyheter` | `nb_NO.news.index` |
| test.co.uk | `/news`    | `en_GB.news.index` |

Given a similar url structure, the `LocaleDependentUrlGenerator` will allow you to write

```PHP
<a href="{{ route('news.index') }}>Text</a>
```

regardless of which site you are on, but will navigate to `/news` when on `test.co.uk` and `/nyheter` when on `test.no`.

### Usage

The middleware does require some setup in order for it to work just like the laravel one. You can adjust your
RouteServiceProvider
or use the LocaleDependentUrlGenerator trait that configures it, and then
running `registerLocaleDependentUrlGenerator()` function.

```PHP
<?php
use Netflex\Toolbox\Traits;
use Illuminate\Contracts\Routing\UrlGenerator as UrlGeneratorContract;

class RouteServiceProvider extends ServiceProvider {
    use LocaleDependentUrlGenerator;
    
    public function register() {
       $this->registerLocaleDependentUrlGenerator();
    }
    
}
```

## Setting locale in edit and preview mode

Since we don't really have control over the edit and preview mode endpoint and the endpoint will be to the same domain,
regardless of what domain the viewed should have, most common domain/locale resolvers we use might not work for
edit/preview mode.

In order to get around this issue, extending `__current_page__` in the service provider can give you a simple way
of adjusting the locale by using it as some sort of middleware system.

While probably not a very clean solution, it does allow us to ensure we also set the locale when we're fetching the page.

```PHP
$this->app->extend('__current_page__', function(?\Netflex\Pages\Page $page, $app) {
    if((preview_mode() || edit_mode()) && $page && $page->lang) {
        App::setLocale($page->lang);
    }
    return $page;
});
```